---
layout: posts
title: "Idleness"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: ipacifics@gmail.com*<br>
*Twitter: @xdrtxrdt*<br>

Happy Halloween to all of you who read this post.

Some think that idleness is the ultimate sin. Being idle certainly tends to lead to wandering thoughts and hands, but this can result in great good and creativity, not evil and destruction. I think being idle is an essential part of training your mind and learning to harness your gifts. Until you learn to sit still in a room, just with your thoughts, you will never be able to reach a plane of higher thought. You must learn to quiet your desire for distraction and immediate distraction and learn to wander through your consciousness. This is the kind of daydreaming that I think is most productive. It’s a very enjoyable kind of flow, and the thoughts that percolate while you’re in this state can be very useful for work when you’re more conscious. I don’t think I’ve ever really achieved this state, but I’ve heard enough about it from anecdotes of more successful people that I think it’s something to strive to achieve.

The advent of digital technology has robbed so many of us of our appreciation for idleness and deep thought. We are not machines; we are not meant to be active all of our waking hours. Let us appreciate the moments of rest we can get between work to understand ourselves and our paths. By falling into a meditative state, we can slowly strip away the masks and walls that we have placed before the truth and finally be at peace with things as they actually are. Ignore the superficial calls of social media and the internet, because those will not fulfill you spiritually. Each of us was placed on this earth to achieve a purpose. Before you get sucked into the vortex of time wasting internet forums and self help seminars or books, reflect on your life so far and what you know. Try to seek the truth and proceed towards it. Your life and happiness are too precious to be wasted fulfilling someone else’s dream or purpose if it is in conflict with your own.

I still haven’t discovered my purpose. I have had seen glimpses of areas that seem promising, and until I know the truth, I’m going to keep exploring. The more risk I take, the more likely I will be able to achieve success. The highs will be higher and the lows will be lower in this case, but the lows are bounded. There is always a way out. Even if there is no hope for me, there is always hope for someone else. As an infinite player, I must keep fighting so that others can continue playing.

I’ve fallen into a snare now. I feel like I have run out of things to write about. But I think this is a natural part of the development cycle, so I will power through and continue producing on a consistent basis. Only by forcing myself to write will I get better. And so it is with everything.


_____
If you want to talk to me, send me an email at ipacifics [at] gmail [dot] com.

