---
layout: posts
title: Awareness and Consistency
---

If you want to achieve great things in life, you are going to have to develop 
great habits. Just as Rome was not built in one day, a meaningful life cannot 
be created in one day, either. But the secret to success is not, as common 
sense would have it, hard work. The secret is automation.

Consider that humans have limited willpower. John Tierney and Roy Baumeister
treat willpower as a resource you consume in their book _Willpower: 
Rediscovering the Greatest Human Strength_. They claim that each action you 
take requires some amount of willpower, which is why people frequently feel 
drained after a long day at work. This reserve of self-control is what has 
long-defined success among the psychology and pop-science communities. But 
willpower isn't enough, because we will eventually drain our reserves. 
Eventually, we will give in to our desires for fun and games and seek to 
reward ourselves for resisting temptation. Once we give in, we will likely 
give in too hard, to compensate for the stress we forced ourselves through.   

This is where automation comes in. If you are able to automate factors for 
success like eating healthy, getting enough sleep, and exercising every day, 
you can focus your energies and limited willpower on developing skills for 
achieving your purpose in life.  

The secrets to hacking your brain into developing good habits are: awareness 
and consistency. You have to be aware of your problems to fix them. Bringing 
problems to light stores them in your subconscious, so you will automatically 
adjust your behavior. From awareness develops consistency. Train your mind and 
body a little each day and reward yourself when you achieve steps to you goal.
We are not superheros, and need constant encouragement to feel like making 
change is worth it. 

I don't want to reinvent the wheel, so I'm going to redirect you to James 
Clear, an writer who has written an excellent primer on hacking your habits.
[Here](http://jamesclear.com/habits) is the secret to developing good habits.
