---
layout: posts
title: "Would You Enjoy It More if You Were 10x at It?"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

I think most people prefer to not be the underdog. Most people prefer to be
good at what they do. They want to be able to take pride in their work, and
the ability to take pride normally means you have some demonstrable skill in
a task.

So what if you were 10x at something? What if you were in the top 5%, top 1%
of the world at something? Do you think you would enjoy it more than you do
now?

I think that question, as well-intentioned as it may sound, is probing the
entirely wrong part of the space. If you have to ask that question, you
haven't had the guts to become 10x, otherwise you would already be 10x at
something. This is not to say that you can't become 10x, as James Altucher
did when he became a Chess Grandmaster ~30 years old. The question you really
should trying be trying to determine the answer to, now, is whether there is
something on your mind that is worth becomign 10x in. Are you willing to
sacrifice time for your other hobbies, your other interests, other pieces of
your life, so you can restructure your mind to be as efficient as possible
for some activity?

Of course, it's possible for you to become 10x in anything. What will happen
in the middle, though, is that you will discover a fundamental
reason to hate the activity or you will get very invested into the actvitiy
and continually find reasons to believe the activity is beautiful or you will
realize that you can't stack up against all the other professionals competing
for top spots and give up on seriously pursing 10x-ness. All these outcomes
are fine, because I think the ultimate goal of your life must be to discover
and achieve personal fulfillment. If the current activity can't do that
for you, you should keep searching. Search until your work becomes something
that you can put motivation against and until the relationships become
something that can feed your motivation.
