---
layout: posts
title: "You Don't Need Permission to Get Started"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

There are two ideas that I think govern people's reluctance to bet on new ideas:
1. Taking bets on a future that has no concrete form is hard.
2. Taking bets on a future that is already partially before your eyes is less
hard.

The first is the reason it can be hard to get approval to work on new things.
The second is the reason that an idea that was rejected through formal approval
is accepted, lauded, praised, whatever when it is brought to life.

If you consider people who review proposals for new ideas (people above you
in the hierarchy) as risk managers, formal processes they may put
in place are risk reduction tools. The more hoops there are in the approval
process, the more evidence you need to supply. The more evidence you can supply,
the more mature your idea is. You may think this is a chicken and egg problem,
but it's really an issue of you being willing to work on a project pre-approval.
Why would you be willing to work on something on your own time (The implicit
ending to this sentence is "for someone else's benefit". It's a rather insidious
and well known problem that the non-linearities of return to ownership mean
employees or workers who are largely compensated through a linear salary /
hourly wage compensation model will never reap the full return on the value they
provide to employers. If you took "people above you in the hierarchy" to mean
your parents, you *should* get to reap all that you sow, but what you sow is
more likely to be knowledge and experience than money.) The best answer I can
give is that you are [building your own house](../21/chop-wood-carry-water.html).
(Another answer, which I'm taking from the previous paragraph, is that people
may need more concrete nudges to accept your idea.)

Every opportunity and every experience contribute towards that mass of whatever
it is that makes you who you are and what your life is. Only you can control
what this house you are building looks like, how fast it get built, whether it
uses top quality materials or compromises in some areas, whether some portions
get outsourced to contractors or whether you will enlist a partner to help you
complete it. Of course, your ability to build a house you can be proud of
depends on your having a guiding mission, a North Star, or a blueprint. Until
you have such a thing, it may be hard to figure out whether paying the price of
achieving success in one area or building one thing is worth it. But, given the
principle that rate of learning is dependent on the number of iterations you can
squeeze into a given time unit, it's probably best to be biased towards action
and work as hard as you can until you figure out what you want your life to look
like or at least have enough principles to help you determine when action is
appropriate. Since you want to avoid getting stuck in local minima, it's best to
explore in a funnel-like pattern: start broad and rely on your intuition and
advice and mental framework to narrow towards what you can accept as truth.
Truth is likely to be biased towards lesser harm than more harm. Truth is more
likely to align with helping people achieve happiness without addiction or
dependencies than not. Truth is more likely to be aligned towards nature than
not. These are some of my guide posts.

You don't need permission to get started. What you need is the right mindset and
your own permission to fight against laziness and inertia and peer pressure.
Your life is yours to build.

In cases where you do need permission to acquire or use equipment, it is
necessary to understand to form favorable connections with people with decision
making or access leverage. It is also a good sign to see that those people are
biased towards supporting new initiatives. These people may be your CTO, your
manager, a machine shop keeper, a local club leader, etc. If you cannot find
people with decision making or access leverage with a bias towards supporting
self-directed action, that's a sign to find a better environment. Some barriers
are better tackled head on; some are better tackled by jumping over or digging
under; some are better tackled by running around the side. Barriers where people
are fundamentally conflicted over how they see world are probably better tackled
by running around. One person cannot convince the other. All each side can do is
repeatedly present evidence and hope the right neurons connect in the other
side's minds. That is a slow process and perhaps interminable process.

If you are being blocked on approvals for a project, take to heart the second
idea I presented above and make your idea more concrete. Or, realize that you
may be seen as insubordinate and should start checking to see if you should
leave for an environment that better suits your personality, vision, and skills.

> Do the major risks of the company have significant overlap with your skill
set?

> That way your destiny is in your control.

> -- [Delian Asparouhov](https://breakoutlist.com/delian-asparouhov/)

Notes:<br>
Working hard on projects and proving your ability to bring them to reality may
make you as someone who can repeatedly leveraged (erm, could be
[exploited](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=7413904)) as a
creator type. This is not particularly effective signaling if you want to move
into a higher level, strategy focused position. Promotions happen on a
backwards-facing basis. That is, people are promoted to a level once they've
already demonstrated their ability to handle above some threshold of the
performance requirements of that higher level.

The world still runs on people. Make friends with the right ones and life could
go a lot easier. Read people's incentives wrong and you may get betrayed
(played) in a very unfortunate way. Don't know who to make friends with? Surely
you can sense who's got real decision-making power in meetings. Still stumped?
Just ask. Unless you're dealing with particularly insidious folks with big
tendencies to myopically protect self-interest (most likely because they're
incompetent and only depend on this one connection they're hiding from you for
leverage), you're like to find people more willing to help than not.
