---
layout: posts
title: "Hat Creek July 4 Weekend, 2020"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

[I had an epic weekend up at Hat
Creek](https://twitter.com/xdrtxrdt/status/1280262884082106368). I got nearly
2 hours of absolutely butter smooth ridge soaring in and got to know a good
portion of the Mussel Rock locals. Turns out I ran into these locals one day at
Mussel Rock, when the fog was coming in nice and low over Walker. I was with
Andre Taube that day. We just went home since we'd done quite a bit of kiting
already and saw that the rest of the Dumps wasn't flyable.

My first launch at Hat Creek was smooth. Wind was probably around 10mph when I
pulled my wing up. It came up nice and mellow, I turned around once it was
stable, then rode that elevator shaft way up over the ridge. It was an amazing
flight. I landed in LZ1 no problem and then hat dinner with Jeff Greenbaum and
Deb and Dustin. Jeff made us a real nice dinner of turkey pasta. His
girlfriend's son, Justin, cut us some slices of pancake bread from Trader Joe's.
Then I sat around with the guys (Jerry, Elwyn, JJ, Arnel, Marco, Mike, Mark)
until about midnight. I made the mistake of sleeping with my head in the trunk
of my car that night. I thought that would better keep the
light out, but I ended up twisted into some completely unnatural position in the
morning. It also meant my feet were more frozen, since I cracked the rear window
open.

A note on the drive up to Hat Creek. The nearest supercharger is in Red Bluff.
That supercharger is in a kind of run down shopping center. In fact, it's so
run down that you wonder who of the local population could afford a Tesla. The
FoodMaxx discount supermarket there is full of people you might call hicks, and
many of them couldn't be bothered to wear masks.

The Red Bluff supercharger is 80 - 90 mi away from LZ1. I charged to 298mi,
which was as far as the charger would go, and got to LZ1 with 198mi. I drove
very conservatively on the way to LZ1 and had to pull over multiple times to let
drivers pass me. The drive is easy, with all the roads except the portion just
before the LZ1 being nicely paved. The path to the LZ is all dirt, but it's not
bumpy enough to scratch the bottom of the car.

There were a few other people camping at LZ1. Bonnie and Jared and Shane are
Mussel Rock locals. Carl I believe used to be a local but is now in Seattle.
Carl used to be a corporate pilot. Tony was a rando. I think he recently moved
to SF and works as a customer support engineer for a startup. He got somewhat
close to Dustin and Deb. Dustin and Deb were Jeff's students. They went to
Mexico this year (they squeezed it in before COVID struck the states) and got
their P3 right after Saturday night's flight. They drove me up to the LZ in
their pickup truck. There was also George...he's apparently been a P2 for 6 or
7 years at this point. Carl brought a massive trailer, which Mark slept in and
which served as our base of evening hangouts. Bonnie and Jared slept in a van.
Other people either slept in their cars or set up tents. Some people brought
solar showers.

JJ, Arnel, Jerry, and Elly went dirt biking on Friday and Saturday. They rode
all the way to Burney and met some 73 year old fire watcher that was a bit of a
nutcase. Apparently his wife sits in a tower on another mountain and also
watches for signs of fires. Between the two of them, they can triangulate the
location of the flames. Because of COVID, the trail up to his tower has been
closed. His gregariousness is probably a function of his being more lonely now.
Carl brought some electric fat bikes that Mark helped him sort parts for. He
rode one up to launch on Saturday. Jerry didn't fly on Saturday.

My launch on Saturday was a mess of overcorrection. The winds are so strong that
the wing responds much more aggressively to control inputs than I am used to.
I managed to survive, but it could have turned out much worse. My wing barely
inflated as I ran down the mountain and I ultimately launched through a bush.

I didn't do very much during the non-flying times. I hung out with the guys and
we just talked about nothing much for hours. It didn't feel like hours, though.
We went to find a body of water to cool down in on Saturday. That was a bit of
a disaster since JJ didn't end up actually knowing where he was going and then
nobody wanted to follow Jeff to some far off lake so we ended up pulling over
onto some small side road leading to some residential properties and standing in
a creek. It was probably Hat Creek.

The guys said that Marco was very domesticated because he brought his wife
along. Had she not been there, he would have been the most drunk person in camp
each night. Mark (Bood, Big Balls, whatever else they call him) got so drunk and
stoned Friday night that he ended up naked on the side of the road. I think he
had 13 - 16 beers and a bunch of edibles. He then wanted to ride his 150cc
Monkey up to launch. I think he got nervous and lost at some point and tried to
go back to LZ1. He stopped about 300 ft from the LZ1 and just got off his bike.
He was intending to just sleep there. Luckily the guys got worried and went to
find him. He pulled a real shenanigan on Friday night. He rode the Monkey out
to the other end of the LZ, in the near full moon light, took off all his
clothes, rode part of the way back, twirled around, then ran back to where he
left his clothes because he thought Arnel was going to go out and snatch his
clothes. Jerry shined this crazy spotlight on Mark while this was going on.
Jerry practically brought his entire garage in the second hand truck he bought
just for the trip. He had a leaf blower (for shooing away all that cigarette
smoke from Mark he hates), a brand new sprocket, a second hand
dirt bike he also bought just for the trip, an espresso maker, a cooler he
bought just for the trip, etc.

Jerry's a software engineer at Clover. JJ's a realtor. Mike's a free agent. He's
got a trailer over the bed of his truck that he lives in. He hangs out around
Pacifica sometimes but was planning to head to Canada and do trip from Alaska
across Canada after Hat Creek. He doesn't fly. Mark screwed his ankle because he
fly at Mussel in soccer cleats and landed weird so he also didn't fly.

We feasted real hard on Saturday night. We probably started cooking at 10pm.
JJ brought out some sausages and then bell peppers. That was incredibly tasty.
Mark then brought out onions, rib eye, and asparagus. He also had tons of rice
and scalloped potatoes. Arnel then used his smoker (!!) to smoke 3 massive
pieces of tri tip. Mark wanted everything to come out at the same time, so he
hid the food until about 12:30am, when the tri tip was ready. Everybody pounced
and savored that beautiful tri tip.

Arnel and Jerry drove up together. They went to Costco and bought absurd
amounts of food, but it definitely kept the group happy. Arnel has a
Sprinter-like camper van. I think he's a vet. Jerry was a linguist in the Air
Force and spent some time at the language center in Monterey. He knows a bit of
Mandarin. Mike's a vet and has a nasty scar on his left leg. You can see that
leg is permanently much smaller than the right. He's a real nice guy.

Elwyn's a crazy carpenter. He moved out to Hayward because his rent was $3000+
in Pacifica. He's real nice, but Jared has some beef with him.

I went with Elwyn, Arnel, Jerry, and JJ to Lassen Volcanic Park on Sunday. Jeff
also went, but in a separate group. The entrance fee was $30??! It's good for 7
days, but I couldn't care less about that amortized cost. I left the park with
about 183mi of range and got out of the park with 100 - 110 mi. We stopped at a
couple of scenic spots in the park, like a lake, a grassy area with a trailhead
to Mt Lassen, another trailhead to Mt. Lassen, and the sulphur pools. After
that, we all split off. I went to the Red Bluff supercharger (had about 98mi
when I arrived) and JJ, Arnel, and Elwyn went on the I-5 and eventually stopped
to eat somewhere. Jerry got so tired he had to stop and sleep. I also did that,
at the Williams rest area. It's weird how we never exchanged contact
information. I charged a second time at Vacaville (basically retraced my steps
on the way up) because there was traffic in Vacaville and I figured I might be
able to wait it out. That was false, but I did get a nice hot pastrami from
Togo's while at Vacaville.

Somewhere around Fairfield, I passed three police cars in a span of 3 miles. One
jumped on the highway, in the traffic, and then sped off. I saw him later, on
the side of the highway, where we had all just exited the traffic. The other two
were also on the side of the highway. Not sure what the deal was.

I got home around 8:30pm. First things first: clean out stuff from my car and
start laundry. Then, shower. All in all, this was a magnificent trip. I really
needed the time to just sit around and be in nature and be with cool people. The
paragliding was a nice attraction, but it was the rest of the experience that
made the whole trip worth it. I'm looking forward to another trip with the guys,
but maybe I should get my [P3
first](https://www.flytorrey.com/flight-school/intermediate-certification/).

Side note: Arnel can open beer bottles with his wedding ring. He's also a tandem
pilot and a BASE jumper. Cool guy, real nice, kind of the natural leader of the
Jerry, JJ, Elwyn group.
