---
layout: posts
title: "ThoughtSpot Anniversary Reflection"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

I hit one year with ThoughtSpot on Aug 5, 2020. I breathed a sigh of relief when
I was saw in our online portal that a quarter of my stock had vested. My
breathing increased in pace when I saw all the nice messages and congratulations
from the team on my manager's Slack announcement of my anniversary. I joined
this company because I really felt like they wanted me. It feels amazing to be
given a heads up that you are now (сейчас) even more wanted and appreciated.

I switched managers around January / Feb of 2020. My original manager went back
to India so the other staff engineer on the team took over our half of the
search team work. I really liked my original manager because he had a gentle,
caring personality and was starting new projects to push forward the
infrastructure and product excellence of the team. He was also always ready to
drop his work and help me. Needless to say, I really enjoyed my first couple of
months of onboarding.

My first two months or so was spent on onboarding tickets and on writing up a
new engineers' guide. Once those tasks were completed, my manager, another
engineer and I started working on a trace collection pipeline that would allow
us to get insight into what kinds of queries users were making on their
clusters. I was mainly responsible for building trace anonymization. I made
plenty of mistakes in deployment, and the feature hasn't been deployed beyond
our internal dogfood instance, but we've gotten quite a few asks from
engineering and PMs about how to access the database we set up.

When I came back from vacation in the end of Jan, the team started a new
initiative around teaching users the search language. The original idea came
from a 2019 hackathon project one of my search team coworkers worked on. We've
revised, contracted, expanded, and refactored the flow over the past seven
months. It's now part of our larger onboarding flow. I'm quite proud of the
engineering design decisions we've made and the constant collaboration between
PM, designers, and engineers. It's these discussions that have made this feature
look as cool as it does today and it's those discussions that will allow us to
continue making this feature more and more useful for new users.

The company has been around for almost eight years now. We've established our
search for relational databases strategy as viable, unique, and worth paying for
and are now looking to our next phase of growth. It's an exciting time to be at
the company (maybe a bit disorienting if you're _joining_ now). I'm not directly
involved in the TS 2.0 discussions, but I trust my teammates and am already
highly impressed with the prototypes they've produced.

In a more localized sense, my current manager has been pushing the team to pick
up more operational tasks and raise the bar of our developer tooling, code
coverage, system reliability and robustness. We've done lots of knowledge
transfers from the authors of the search infra team and I've built code coverage
checking pipelines and a script to check that devs have made appropriate
additions to production configuration files before they check in new code. The
engineering team is small, so we constantly have to rebalance our prioritization
of long-tail, long-term tasks with our immediate feature and customer issues
demands. I'm confident that our dev experience and collective knowledge of the
system will be completely leveled up by the end of year.

I'm lucky that my first manager (who has now left to pursue his entrepreneurial
journey in India!! Best of luck to you, Ravi) and my current manager were both
always looking for my feedback on the team and their performance as managers.
Any comments I've had about team organization, team collaboration, the
performance review and promotion process, the type of tasks we are working on,
have been taken seriously and earnestly. Every comment has received a relevant
and sincere response and I know that every other member of the team receives the
same, respectful treatment. I don't remember if I've said this before, but I
feel it nearly every day that people at ThoughtSpot genuinely care about the
progress of the company and each other's personal and professional development.
I'm grateful to have such an awesome team who supports and mentors and pushes me
forward. It's been a good year.

Note:
Your relationship with your company is a two way street.
You need to prove your worth to the company on a weekly, if not daily basis. The
company should prove its worth to you on a weekly, if not daily basis. If you're
not feeling heard, if you're not feeling aligned with the mission, if you're
not feeling appropriately compensated, if you're unsatisfied for any other
reason, you should initiate an open conversation with your manager about what
changes you want to see made. If they're not open to discussion or otherwise
start engaging in dodgy HR or otherwise political moves when you bring up why
you're dissatisfied, you should probably consider leaving. If, even after
receiving an appropriate response from the company, you're feeling burnt out or
just plain dissatisfied, you should probably consider leaving. Look for a place
where you feel that your efforts are aligned with your results and work really
hard to make sure that alignment continues to stay true.
