---
layout: posts
title: "Remote Working Salary"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

There's far too much [noise](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23368492)
(well, there's always too much noise about everything) about remote working
salaries and locality adjustments. Locality adjustments are nothing new. If you
physically go to an office in Kansas, you will make less money than if you
physically go to an office in NY or SF. Nobody found that weird before. Well, it
at least wasn't something people were in uproar about (people seem more upset
about not having jobs at all, like in Detroit, than location based differences
in pay). What's new about this situation? I don't really know (does it even
matter), but we can at least review some pieces of the debate.

_Point 1_: Work of the same quality should be the same no matter where it's done.
Darn Tough socks are $20 on Amazon, no matter where you order them from or to
(taxes not included). Code written by Software Engineer Bob should be worth
$130,000 no matter whether he lives in Berlin or SF or NY or Bangkok.

_Point 2_: Companies should offer the minimum amount they can get away with to
maximize profits. Yes, they can hire more if they offer locality adjusted
salaries because not everybody wants that Silicon Valley money pay.

_Point 2.5_: Workers may not be so aggressive in asking for Silicon Valley pay.
They may be "satisfied" (whatever that means) with their existing lower pay and
negotiate around that anchor anyway. [See Gitlab's
post](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2019/02/28/why-we-pay-local-rates/).

_Point 3_: Offering locality adjusted pay doesn't truly align with a remote work
friendly workplace. Now, before I continue down this path, I just want to say
that I don't think any of these companies have really ideologically bought into
remote work the way [Basecamp
has](https://m.signalvnoise.com/basecamp-doesnt-employ-anyone-in-san-francisco-but-now-we-pay-everyone-as-though-all-did/).
Of course, Basecamp is not the only remote first company. They're just one of
the loudest. Continuing with the main thread, a truly remote work friendly
company should not care where their employees live. If you locality adjust, then
the incentive is still for people to live in SF as frugally as possible until
they acquire enough of a nest egg to FIRE (Financial Independence Retire Early).
Locality adjustments don't change the fact that software engineers will still
make more than other employees in a given area, so SWEs can go on living above
average lifestyles where ever they move. This issue is more just a ideological
log in everybody's eye.

_Point 4_: What if an employee moves somewhere more expensive? Companies are all
too happy to save money (outsource to India!) but [slow to jump on the "let's
pay more for $X reasons"
bandwagon](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23369446). The other potential
issue is that people may only temporarily move somewhere cheaper. If they move
back to SF, the company may not want to reinstate their previously higher
salary.

_Point 5_: Housing markets are intimately tied to local salaries. Combine the
money these tech workers have with the increased demand for housing in hot
cities like Denver or Salt Lake City or Austin and there's going to be bubbles
all over. I don't think these bubbles will be catastrophically big, but they'll
be there nevertheless. There will like also be a general rising of the tide
across the country as people move back home or to where they've always wanted to
live. That rising of the tide might manifest as gentrification. I don't think
the number of cities that are materially affected by tech workers moving out of
the valley will be massive, since I don't think the population of tech workers
is that large or their financial clout that aggressive. There also aren't that
many Schelling Points people will move to.

_Point 6_: Visas.

_Point 7_: Smart people can just maintain multiple residences.

A lot of these points contractors and people who've already been freelancing /
working remotely have figured out how to maximize. Now that remote work is
becoming more of a default, companies may be more attuned to people "working
around" the locality adjustments and work harder to prevent those tactics from
working. Workers may then choose other companies to work for (unlikely, since
people don't seem to be that Machiavellian and scheming in choosing their
employers, but it's worth a note). Companies will adjust their policies back and
the workers will adjust until the market reaches its reasonably efficient and
hopefully acceptable equilibrium.

I'm not convinced this remote work thing is going to leave a huge dent on work
policies and habits. Infrastructure and culture don't change that quickly (just
look at how many people are still crowding onto beaches without masks). Even if
they do try to change quickly to "catch up to the trends", they cause bubbles
and oscillations that some people may argue are bad for the economy or market or
productivity or whatever. There are still jobs that aren't possible without
people being in the same space (manufacturing and hardware startups and services
are the obvious examples). I don't know what kind of temperament most remote
workers have, but not going to the office reduces most people's daily social
interactions. People seem to be doing OK now, but maybe that's because
quarantine hasn't been *that* strict about people seeing each other. Or maybe
it's because of that remarkable ability for people to look to the future and
hold hope in their hearts for a brighter tomorrow.

Ah, it's a weird time. People are frustrated from being at home all day and
having to live with uncertainty about the future of their work / life situation.
A lot of discourse is likely overplayed, but that just means you have to, as
always, think for yourself and seek truth.

Questions, comments? Send me email^^.
