---
layout: posts
title: "Planning vs Execution vs Analysis"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

My younger sister was recently asked to formulate, with her team of fellow
remote classmates, an argument for whether planning, execution, or analysis is
more important to the success of a scientific lab experiment. Most of the
arguments were mediocre and completely off the central leverage point of the
answer. One team asked whether you would rather have a surgeon with shaky hands
but excellent planning or a surgeon with mediocre planning but excellent
execution operate on you. That answer creates a false dichotomy that totally
ignores the key factor that determines which of planning and execution
(everybody quickly abandoned analysis as being part of the exciting dual battle
between planning and execution) carries greater weight: experience.

For these high school students with little experience, planning is the most
important. The pre-lab preparation and lab instructions should be so carefully
and clearly written that the execution should be as trivial as weighing out 100g
of powder. The expectations of the canned lab experiment are clear. The inputs
and outputs of this exercise are well defined. Thus, it makes sense to prepare
rote, distinct instructions that nearly guarantee the success of the endeavor.
The experiment is also unforgiving, so those without experience should be guided
very strictly down the narrow path to success. Of course, given unlimited
resources, students should be given free reign to explore and experiment with
a wide range of parameters, as early polymaths did. But we all know that is not
the objective of the modern schooling environment. Anyway, planning carries the
bulk of the weight for the inexperienced practitioner, which is the audience of
this course.

This is not to say that execution will ever exceed planning in importance. I
think execution can only ever be as important as planning. But, I do think
planning starts to become less explicit as one gains more experience and can
more reliably lean on intuition and memory. If you consider intuition and memory
and latent experience as detracting from the importance of planning, then
execution will eventually become more important.

Another case where planning can become more important is when one is not
directly performing a task but has to delegate the task to another person. In
this case, depending on the experience of the executor and the uncertainty and
complexity of the task, the role of planning may increase.

Analysis seems to be a completely separate category because it is a post-lab
exercise. You can have excellent analysis but horrible data or mediocre analysis
but great data. There's probably some false dichotomy I'm missing here, but that
seems to be the basic reason why we are so eager to push analysis into its own
world.
