---
layout: posts
title:  "How Children Fail Notes"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

Update 06/22/2020:<br>
My work team has been talking about onboarding and user activation these days.
During many of the ideation sessions, team members have talked about how little
they regard they pay to the onboarding sequences. "I click through at the speed
of light." "I've somehow never been caught at a time that I want to learn." The
fundamental issue here is similar to what John talks about with teachers feeding
kids questions they weren't interested in asking themselves at that point. Users
who are being pushed through onboarding flows don't care to know the answers to
the questions that onboarding is trying to show them. Even if it may save a user
a couple of Google searches a few days, weeks, months down the line of using the
product to learn all these tidbits in the onboarding flow now, he's much more
motivated to find the answer to that question through Google because it's his
question. There's human problems technology cannot solve.

Note that there could be massively time saving features hidden in the never
used onboarding. For example, filters in Gmail.

It seems like the products with the most successful user growth are ones that
hijack some neural mechanisms and exceed the threshold of the hormetic zone of
that mechanism. For example, high fat + sugar foods hijacking our satiety
mechanisms and pushing people into energy toxicity and metabolic dysfunction.
Another example is how the "like button" and infinite scroll apps hijack our
social reward mechanisms. Gambling hijacks our non-social reward mechanisms.
Alcohol and drugs and pornography also overactivate our reward centers. All of
these hijacked systems quickly become compromised and addicted to the stimuli.

The previous paragraph doesn't accurately map the entire space of tools that
have experienced wonderful, non-malicious growth. Would one consider Notion and
AirTable malicious growers? Or Tesla? Substack? Growing google search users (ok,
let's go down a rabbit hole of SEO corrupting what should be a simple keyword
based search experience)? Dropbox's growth strategy of email invites? Github's
status strategies with stars or number of forks, etc? Stripe or Twilio's focus
on a super easy dev onboarding experience? Antitrust is potentially an area
where people get nervous about fantastic product growth, but since people are
bad at dealing with exponentials, the alarm bells only get triggered once the
company has exceeded some fundamental measure of size AND has pissed off enough
important users for the ills of that company's existence to be worth the
government's attention.

The best kind of learning environment is with a private tutor that truly cares
about nurturing his student's intellectual curiosity. Can we miniaturize that
kind of experience for product learning?

-----

I'm ashamed that it took me so long to find this book but I'm also grateful that
I did come across it and its ilk seven years ago. I'm grateful for that band of
educators in 1960s America who decided to take a closer look at what it takes to
fill a mind, or, rather, get a mind to fill itself. This book is a journal of
Holt's time working with mostly elementary school children in Colorado in the
late 1950s - early 1960s. The stories are immensely frustrating. Holt fills
journal entry after entry with recollections of children whose minds simply
freeze when asked to do simple arithmetic tasks like write out the multiples of
seven or add two three-digit numbers or do basic division with remainders or
even interpret what fractions are. Some children get blocked by even simpler
tasks of making rows of rods have the same length. John comes up with some nice
ways of temporarily unblocking these kids, but it's evident that his gains are
only temporary. Once these children leave his class, a class where the teacher
is honest to them and doesn't belittle them for being stupid or not knowing an
answer, they go back to conventional environments where scared or angry or
frustrated teachers try to force behavior out of children who are largely even
more scared or angry or frustrated than them.

Let's go over a couple of quotes and then discuss the implications:

----
> A mother told me not long ago that on one of her five-year-old son's first
days in kindergarten he began to talk to a friend.

> Having never in his short life been told that he couldn't talk to people, he
didn't know this was a crime. Instead of just telling him her rule, the teacher
scolded him loudly in front of the class. Then she made a long red paper
"tongue," which she pinned to his shirt, after which she began to make fun of
him, calling him Long Tongue and inviting the other children to do the same--an
invitation they could hardly refuse. In such ways is the war waged.

----
> It is not subject matter that makes some learning more valuable than others,
but the spirit in which the work is done. If a child is doing the kind of
learning that most children do in school, when they learn at all-swallowing
words, to spit back at the teacher on demand--he is wasting his time, or rather,
we are wasting it for him. This learning will not be permanent, or relevant, or
useful. But a child who is learning naturally, following his curiosity where it
leads him, adding to his mental model of reality whatever he needs and can find
a place for, and rejecting without fear or guilt what he does not need, is
growing in knowledge, in the love of learning, and in the ability to learn. He
is on his way to becoming the kind of person we need in our society, and that
our "best" schools and colleges are not turning out, the kind of person who, in
Whitney Griswold's words, seeks and finds meaning, truth, and enjoyment in
everything he does. All his life he will go on learning. Every experience will
make his mental model of reality more complete and more true to life, and thus
make him more able to deal realistically, imaginatively, and constructively with
whatever new experience life throws his way.

----
> I took the paper away and asked her to write the 7 table again. This time I
got 7, 14, 21, 28, 36, 43, 50, 57, 64, 71, 78, and 85.

> I took this paper away and asked her to do it again. This time, after a slip
that I pointed out and she corrected, she gave me a correct set of answers.

> Then I had what seemed at the time like a bright idea. I thought if I could
get her to think about what she had written, she would see that some of her
answers were more reasonable than others, and thus the beginnings of an
error-noticing, nonsense-eliminating device might take root in her mind. I gave
her all three papers, and asked her, since they did not agree, to compare her
answers, check with a those she felt sure were right, with an X those she felt
sure were wrong, and with a ? those she wasn't sure of one way or the other.

> A moment later I got one of the most unpleasant surprises of my teaching
career. She handed me her correct paper, with 7 X 1 marked right, and all other
answers marked wrong.

> This poor child has been defeated and destroyed by school.

----
> Today Jane did one of those things that, for all her rebellious and annoying
behavior in class, make her one of the best and most appealing people, young or
old, that I have ever known. I was at the board, trying to explain to her a
point on long division, when she said, in self-defense, "But Miss W. [her
fourth-grade teacher] told us that we should take the first number..."

> Here she saw the smallest shadow of doubt on my face. She knew instantly that I
did not approve of this rule, and without so much as a pause she continued,
"... it wasn't Miss W., it was someone else..." and then went on talking about
long division.

> I was touched and very moved. How many adults would have seen what she saw,
that what she was saying about Miss W.'s teaching was, in some slight degree,
lowering my estimate of Miss W.? Even more to the point, how many adults, given
this opportunity to shift the blame for their difficulties onto the absent Miss
W., would instead have instantly changed their story to protect her from blame?
For all our yammering about loyalty, not one adult in a thousand would have
shown the loyalty that this little girl gave to her friend and former teacher.
And she scarcely had to think to do it; for her, to defend one's friends from
harm, blame, or even criticism was an instinct as natural as breathing.

> Teachers and schools tend to mistake good behavior for good character.

> What they prize above all else is docility, suggestibility; the child who will
do what he is told; or even better, the child who will do what is wanted without
even having to be told. They value most in children what children least value in
themselves.

> With few exceptions, schools and school people do not value courage in
children. Not understanding it, and having very little of it themselves, they
fear it, and do all they can to stamp it out. They think that children who are
brave will be hard to handle, rebellious, defiant, and that children who are
scared will be easy to control. They have it exactly backwards. The defiant,
destructive, violent children who fill our schools, in city and country, are not
brave, and it is because they are not that they will do anything to look good in
the eyes of the peer group, the mob of age-mates whose whims and prejudices mean
all the world to them.

----
> I doubt very much if it is possible to teach anyone to understand anything,
that is to say, to see how various parts of it relate to all the other parts, to
have a model of the structure in one's mind. We can give other people names, and
lists, but we cannot give them our mental structures; they must build their own.
Many people claim that any field of knowledge or experience can be turned into a
series of questions and answers-programmed learning. An eleventh-grader who had
been taught a year or two of programmed math pointed out to me one day, with
more insight than he perhaps realized, the flaw in that method: "If people give
me the questions I can remember most of the answers, but I can never remember
the questions."

----
> School feels like this to children: it is a place where they make you go and
where they tell you to do things and where they try to make your life unpleasant
if you don't do them or don't do them right.

> For children, the central business of school is not learning, whatever this
vague word means; it is getting these daily tasks done, or at least out of the
way, with a minimum of effort and unpleasantness. Each task is an end in itself.
The children don't care how they dispose of it. If they can get it out of the
way by doing it, they will do it; if experience has taught them that this does
not work very well, they will turn to other means, illegitimate means, that
wholly defeat whatever purpose the task giver may have had in mind.

> They are very good at this, at getting other people to do their tasks for
them.

> I remember the day not long ago when Ruth opened my eyes. We had been doing
math, and I was pleased with myself because, instead of telling her answers and
showing her how to do problems, I was "making her think" by asking her
questions. It was slow work. Question after question met only silence. She said
nothing, did nothing, just sat and looked at me through those glasses, and
waited. Each time, I had to think of a question easier and more pointed than the
last, until I finally found one so easy that she would feel safe in answering
it. So we inched our way along until suddenly, looking at her as I waited for an
answer to a question, I saw with a start that she was not at all puzzled by what
I had asked her. In fact, she was not even thinking about it. She was coolly
appraising me, weighing my patience, waiting for that next, sure-to-be-easier
question. I thought, "I've been had!"

> The girl had learned how to make me do her work for her, just as she had
learned to make all her previous teachers do the same thing. If I wouldn't tell
her the answers, very well, she would just let me question her right up to them.

----
> The children had done some multiplication problems and, in turn, were reading
answers from their marked papers. All went smoothly until, right after a child
had read his answer, another child raised his hand.

> "What is it, Jimmy?" the teacher asked, with just the faintest hint in her
voice that this interruption could not be really necessary. "Well, I didn't get
that answer," said Jimmy, "I got..." but before he could say more, the teacher
said, "Now, Jimmy, I'm sure we don't want to hear any wrong answers." And that
was the last word out of Jimmy.

----
> The author spent some time in a German concentration camp during the war. He
and his fellow prisoners, trying to save both their lives and something of their
human dignity, and to resist, despite their impotence, the demands of their
jailers, evolved a kind of camp personality as a way of dealing with them. They
adopted an air of amiable dull wittedness, of smiling foolishness, of
cooperative and willing incompetence--like the good soldier Schweik. Told to do
something, they listened attentively, nodded their heads eagerly, and asked
questions that showed they had not understood a word of what had been said. When
they could not safely do this any longer, they did as far as possible the
opposite of what they had been told to do, or did it, but as badly as they
dared. They realized that this did not much impede the German war effort, or
even the administration of the camp; but it gave them a way of preserving a
small part of their integrity in a hopeless situation.

> [...] Does not something very close to this happen often in school? Children
are subject peoples. School for them is a kind of jail. Do they not, to some
extent, escape and frustrate the relentless, insatiable pressure of their elders
by withdrawing the most intelligent and creative parts of their minds from the
scene? Is this not at least a partial explanation of the extraordinary stupidity
that otherwise bright children so often show in school? The stubborn and dogged
"I don't get it" with which they meet the instructions and explanations of their
teachers--may it not be a statement of resistance as well as one of panic and
flight?

---
> Why do we tell children things that about one minute's thought would tell us
are not true?

> [...] The main reason we are careless about what we say to children is that we
think it doesn't make any difference. We underestimate their intellectual
ability, the extent to which (at least at first) they think about what they
hear, try to make sense out of it, and are baffled, upset, and frightened when
they cannot.

----
> The bright child is patient. He can tolerate uncertainty and failure, and will
keep trying until he gets an answer. When all his experiments fail, he can even
admit to himself and others that for the time being he is not going to get an
answer. This may annoy him, but he can wait. Very often, he does not want to be
told how to do the problem or solve the puzzle he has struggled with, because he
does not want to be cheated out of the chance to figure it out for himself in
the future. Not so the dull child. He cannot stand uncertainty or failure. To
him, an unanswered question is not a challenge or an opportunity but a threat.
If he can't find the answer quickly, it must be given to him, and quickly; and
he must have answers for everything.

----

> We cannot overestimate the importance of this. The idea of doing the dividing
mentally rather than with white rods did not stick in the minds of these
children because it was my idea, not theirs; there was no place for it in their
minds; it did not meet any felt intellectual need. We must not fool ourselves,
as for years I fooled myself, into thinking that guiding children to answers by
carefully chosen leading questions is in any important respect different from
just telling them the answers in the first place. Children who have been led up
to answers by teachers' questions are later helpless unless they can remember
the questions, or ask themselves similar questions, and this is exactly what
they cannot do. The only answer that really sticks in a child's mind is the
answer to a question that he asked or might ask of himself.

----

If I quote any more of the book, I might just paste the whole thing here. There
are so many more wonderful (sorry, some of them are painfully wonderful) little
anecdotes, like the time when John sees a retarded girl and her mother at an
outdoor concert or when he sits in on a class with Gattegno and watches the
slowest and most anxious boy in the class absolutely transform when he begins to
understand basic arithmetic or when John goes to give a seminar at a teachers
college and sees the raw fear in the very students who are about to go out into
the world and lead a class of young children or when he talks about a boy who
couldn't do arithmetic in class was the official scorekeeper for the local
evening bowling leagues. This book is such a gem. It's worth reading just to see
how much John cares about his students and how backwards some of these children,
who are perfectly mentally capable, break down in the presence of a teacher or
in front of contrived arithmetic problems or in front of their peers. It makes
you want to tear your hair out and run to the bookstore to buy _How Children
Learn_ or practically any other of John's books to see how to resolve these
issues.

Teachers should take responsibility for their actions. That's one thing. Adults
should stop lying to children. That's another thing. School boards should stop
pretending like they know what is going to be important to know in 10, 15, 20
years, when the children they are "educating" grow up. We should let people's
own curiosity guide them for as long as possible. If they later decide to be
guided by money or more practical constraints, so be it. But while they can,
people should immerse themselves as deeply as they can into what they can't keep
their minds off of (excluding addictive things like sex or drugs or breathing...
yeah breathing is very addictive). [Relevant tweet on Billie
Eilish](https://twitter.com/alexeyguzey/status/1216267112978767873?s=20) being
allowed to stay up as late as she wanted, as long as she was working on music.

For whatever F-ing reason, we think it's ok to treat children like they are less
than human. We think that because our lives are miserable and boring and full of
nonsense drudgery that it's ok to ruin people's childhood's in preparation for
"doing what you don't want to do all the time" during their adulthood. Don't you
see that there are some things you can never enjoy as an adult if your childhood
and your nascent love of life and everything you can get your hands on is
squashed and replaced with fear and frustration early on? Don't you see that
cynicism is perhaps one of the most contemptible traits a human can display? We
don't think that children have as much capacity to understand or feel as we do:
> Listen earnestly to anything [your children] want to tell you, no matter what.
If you don't listen eagerly to the little stuff when they are little, they won't
tell you the big stuff when they are big, because to them all of it has always
been big stuff. ― Catherine M. Wallace

^^ Gah, that quote hurts.

Now, not everybody thinks that way. Some people genuinely do like children. Some
people want to do better but are trapped by the system. This horrible, horrible
system of SATs and ACTs and APs and teaching to the test and grades and
cramming. I don't have a better answer to this than to, if you can, unschool
your kids. Follow something like [Alexey's
curriculum](https://twitter.com/alexeyguzey/status/1201954631443779585). Show
them what life can be like, because once people turn into adults, most become
losers (there's a post coming on this, don't worry). Help your kids become
productive members of society that actually want to be alive, that have
willpower + curiosity + belief in themselves and in others.

I'm excited to read more of Holt's work and to also see what John Gatto and
Iserbyt and Gattegno have unearthed about the mysteries of the developing mind
and its capacity to love and be curious about the world. A coworker recently
pointed me to
[_Prepared_](https://www.amazon.com/Prepared-What-Kids-Need-Fulfilled/dp/1984826069),
a book [Bill Gates recommended](https://www.gatesnotes.com/Books/Prepared).
_Prepared_ is written by the founder of the [Summit Public
Schools](https://summitps.org). This set of schools apparently focuses on
self-directed, project-based learning. We'll see how much I get out of that book
vs the ones with stronger Lindy Effect.

**Questions? Comments? Send to my email^^.**

Irrelevant personal note:
I've been lucky to not have ever been so intellectually brain blocked as the
slower children John works with, but I was certainly emotionally very beaten
down during my school years. I remember breaking into tears several times in
my third grade over simple things like being asked to read my writing out loud
or not being able to win a game of handball or being made fun of for having a
"moustache". I was always the shy, quiet, smart kid who didn't know what to do
if the people in her small group of friends wasn't there at lunch or recess. The
shyness hasn't entirely gone away; the tendency to quietly and angrily sulk
because of lack of success in some social situation hasn't entirely gone away,
but I've come to point of intellectual privilege, a place where I can sit rather
calmly and philosophically architect the ideal learning environment. I want to
know how to craft a better environment and attitude in myself and to help those
around me, be they older or younger than me, also regain or enhance their love
for uncovering their own truths about the world.
