---
layout: posts
title: "Action Advantage"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

There are three common advantages one can have over others in a knowledge game
like investing:
* Informational
* Analytical
* Dispositional

What's unemphasized is that having an advantage is useless without actions that
leverage that advantage.

You can create an informational advantage by not sharing what you know that you
know other people don't know, but unless your not sharing that information
creates an imbalance that lets you get richer or rise to a position with more
decision making leverage than the people without that knowledge, your knowledge
is largely as useless as trivia. For example, paying $50,000 for an annual
subscription for nanosecond order book updates is useless your trading strategy
uses that extra fast information to make extra money. Not sharing information
you overheard about what major strategic initiative the CEO will announce at
next Monday's all hands is useless unless you can use that information to get
yourself higher up the decision making ladder or a higher salary or some other
meaningful reward that your coworkers won't get from the Monday meeting.

Analytical advantages manifest as being sharper than other people. It's not hard
to think of the stereotype where the genius wastes their talents or collapses
under the pressure of the system that governs them or wants to take advantage of
their superior mental capacity. Being smart doesn't mean you automatically can
reap the benefits of your abilities. Motivation and discipline to apply those
skills are necessary to produce results that can be absorbed.

Dispositional advantages tend to only be understood through action. People with
better disposition may be less easy to anger or more patient in the face of
uncertainty. Dispositional advantages may become so extreme as to encourage
non-action. This is how I tend to view meditative / Buddhist practices.
Practitioners tend to retreat from society in order to deepen their control of
their selves and transcend the day to day noise that troubles the minds of other
people. More moderate dispositional advantages are what make pro athletes so
steely and effective on court and poker players so unreadable at the table.
Dispositional advantages can only be improved through deliberate, repeated
stress of those behaviors. There is no way to easily separate possession of
dispositional advantages from the action of using or displaying them.

Most of the benefits I assumed one could accrue with these advantages were money
(and by extension, freedom) or power. This is less true with the dispositional
advantage, since one might exceed the desire for money or influence and desire
peace and a wide base of emotional stability. It is also true that the point of
becoming analytically superior is just to be able to figure things out faster
and build things better. Building up that skill can lead to more money and
influence, but it's not necessarily the objective. Informational advantage seems
to have no real purpose besides manipulating power balances. Informational
advantage is therefore most adversarial of these advantages.

To really leverage these advantages, one needs to have a bias towards actions
that play up the power disparities between one with and without the advantages.
Trying to build and hold these advantages where there is no corresponding
action that tilts the playing field in one's favor is futile. To maximize the
learning loop when training or building these advantages, it's best that the
results are clearly visible so that one is less likely to be deluding oneself
about the effectiveness of each supposed advantage.
