---
layout: posts
title: "How to Survive in Your Native Land Quotes"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

These quotes are in the order they appear in the book; they get more heavy
hitting as you scroll further.

> For most of that year Frank and I agreed that CA—as the school soon began
calling it—was absolutely the worst class we could have imagined.

> ...We were in a new world. Nothing can be worse than that. We had to face the
fact that all the stuff we thought the kids were dying to do \[write to the Peace
Corps, ...bring cigar boxes and make avant-garde environments, ...make plaster
statuary, ...write stories, paint left-handed or make up new languages\] (if
they only had time away from the stupefying lessons of other teachers) was in
fact stuff that we wanted them to do, that we invented, that interested us—not
only that but it interested us mainly as things to be doing during periods of
time when something had to be going on, when no one was supposed to be just
sitting around doing nothing. And not only things to be doing—it was things for
them, the kids, to be doing.

> ...we were able to decide that we had a lot more ideas than the kids and the
kids never knew what they wanted to do anyway, and if we made them do stuff we
knew was interesting and exciting and all, they would be better off for it.

---

> teachers promising "class participation in decision making" and then if it
didn't work out just like the teacher wanted, the teacher then unilaterally
changed his fucking mind. (I remind myself how things change when you give up
your authority, officially, even if you really want to keep it, privately. The
kids begin to talk to you just as if you are a real person, and often say just
what they mean.)

---

> My wife Fran goes to visit Tierra Firma Elementary School, where our kids go,
one morning and ends up staying the day. She is appalled at the playground
scene. It appears that the kids (kindergarten to sixth grade) are all running
around yelling about kill and murder and beat upand about stupid and MR and
dumb-ass and two kids are holding another kid while a third socks him in the
belly ... and two little white kids are refusing to let a bigger black kid play
football with them and so the black kid starts to beat them up and when the
playground woman comes over they all three give her a lot of shit and run away
and she can't catch them ...

> Back in the classroom after lunch she observes the concerned teachers trying
to have some discussion with the kids about how to treat other people, about
violence, about calling names—suddenly, says Fran, they are all these goddamn
nice neat marvelous white middle-class children, even if occasionally black,
talking about equal rights and observing the rights of others and not giving way
to vagrant impulse and how war is bad and everyone is smart (even them fucking
MR's) and how in a democracy everyone must be responsible for his or her own
actions. They all know what to say! hollers Fran to me. They have all the words!
...They are a veritable UN of kids... the hypocritical little bastards! Sucking
up, that's what they are! And believing it at the same time! Talk is cheap!

> No doubt. It is the original prerogative of the white American middle class to
be sucking up while at the same time actually believing everything it says.

---

> We were bothered and confused and upset because the kids who never would do
anything we suggested they might do were always the very kids who kept
complaining to us that they were bored, that there was Nothing To Do In Here
(and Out There), that We Never Do Anything In This Class and We Don't Learn
Anything In Here. When we heard that complaint, we'd haul out some idea
(figuring we had the kid this time!) and say Then why don't you do this or that?
Then the complaining kid would say triumphantly, Naw, I don't want to! Well,
what about doing this or that other thing, we'd say, and the kid would say
Uh-uh, and then we'd say O.K., what about . . . and the kid got to say No Good
and then cut out and go to the bathroom and arrive back later saying There's
Nothing Going On.

---

> When I got back the school had a new program. The junior high school assumes
that it was invented in order to bridge the gap between elementary and high
school, but it is always uncertain which way it ought to lean. In our case,
Spanish Main had started out leaning toward the elementary side, but by the time
I got there it was definitely taking a hard line toward high school, telling the
kids stuff like you have to grow up, take responsibility, get along with more
than one teacher. But over that summer someone had had second thoughts, it
seemed, and recognized that in the school there were a number of kids who didn't
take to the hard-line high school approach. It was decided to call these kids
"immature" and deal with them in a self-contained classroom, for one year, "to
make their transition easier." There were only a couple such classes. Apparently
the one thousand or so other kids weren't immature.

> It seems to me now that that was the beginning (at SM) of two tactics used by
public schools to win their battle for existence; first, to establish special
groups of kids in various categories ranging from "immature" through
neurologically or emotionally or educationally "handicapped" to "deprived" to the
marvelous, blatant "non-achiever," and second, to take teachers who wish to
teach in some odd way and let them teach those odd kids. For all the terms for
special kids really just mean kids who can't or won't or don't do things the way
the school thinks they ought to be done; once labeled as special, the school can
pretend that there is a normal group which is well served by the custom of the
school. The school's obvious inability to satisfy many children can then become
natural, since the kids are "special" and shouldn't be satisfied by any normal
procedures and the school does not need to change its ways at all, has only to
create some arrangements on the outskirts of the school to keep them special
kids and special teachers out of the way.

---

> If you feel that what the school calls learning is bullshit shall you inform
your students of that and forbid them to do the school work? If you feel that
what the school calls learning is bullshit shall you inform the kids of that and
still make them do it? If you feel that what the school calls learning is
bullshit ought you to pretend that you don't feel that? Pointless questions.
Arrogant questions, besides; you forget that the kids really know the score,
know that no matter what you, some nutty individual teacher with whom they've
been saddled for no reason of their own, think about it, they've their parents
and future teachers and their cum[ulative] folders and the high school
counselors and achievement tests and four years of high school and college and
grad school and the Coast Guard to satisfy. They have lives to lead, something
which is often forgotten, and for many kids the school was only a gambit to be
achieved in some way within those lives.

---

> The people of Tierra Firma are the advantaged of America. They are advantaged
because they believe in the promise of America and are actually satisfied by it
when they get it and by the striving which they must constantly do to keep
getting and believing in it. They believe, for instance, that as long as you are
free to buy things on credit then you can keep going to work in order to pay
those payments and that the one justifies the other and makes it meaningful.
They know what you are supposed to do and by and large make an effort to do it
and see the results and they are not cynical about the results.

---

> [A]n American public school must have winners and losers. It does not matter
in this respect what kind of school it is.

> ...The students who end up in a place like M.I.T. are certainly the winners of
the Western world, the smartest, most with-it, craftiest Western technological
human beings ever produced but even then all of them cannot be winners. Some of
them must flunk out, because M.I.T. being a school in America has also got to
have losers. Would those M.I.T. losers be winners at S.F. State? Maybe so and
maybe not.

> ...That is why some students of M.I.T. are throwing dodge balls at each
other's heads, and a large group of physicists stands around the outskirts of
the school grounds crying, and why nothing can console them even if someone hits
them or doesn't hit them in they mouths.

> They cry because the losers are going to get some revenge some way. But they
also cry because the winning is never permanent. You may be a winner in the
first grade, but by the fourth you may be losing. The rites of passage of the
school go on and on. Each year it is circumcision time all over again; obviously
you may weep for what has been hacked off by the time you are thirty-five and
have a PhD.

> How does the school make certain that it will have winners and losers? Well,
obviously by giving grades. If you give A's, you must also give F's. Without the
rest of the grades, the A is meaningless. [...] The median on the bell curve is
not a median, it is not an average, it is not a norm, not to the school and not
to the kids in the school. It is a losing sign, a failure, and a hex. You must
be way out there on the right-hand edge where the curve approaches the base
line. But it is the nature of bell curves that most everyone cannot be there.

---

> The first characteristic of any institution is that no matter what the
inevitable purpose for which it was invented, it must devote all its energy to
doing the exact opposite. Thus, a Savings Bank must encourage the people to
borrow money at Interest, and a School must inspire its students toward
Stupidity.

> The second characteristic is that an institution must continue to exist. Every
action must be undertaken with respect to eternity. This second characteristic
is the reason for the first. For unless a Savings Bank can persuade the people
not to Save, the Savings Bank will go broke. But the Savings Bank must continue
to exist, since otherwise the people would have No Place To Save. Just so, the
School must encourage its students not to learn. For if the students learned
quickly, most of them could soon leave the school, having Learned. But if the
students left the school it would cease to exist as an institution and then the
students would have No Place In Which To Learn.

---

> Why allow them to track the kids? Why let them keep the kids from reading?
We told [the principal] that if he didn't allow [the other teachers] to use the
texts, to track, to give out ditto sheets, to do all that stuff which prevented
the kids from reading, that they would have to enter a new world since the old
one was forbidden. ... That would give them a chance to learn how to teach, lead
to public discussion among the teachers about how to teach in the public schools
in America, and (incidentally) to some solidarity among the staff. ...The
principal, we told him, ought to provide educational leadership.

> He abdicated. He said public education is a game you can't whip. You just have
to play it the best you can and drink plenty of martinis. He told us the schools
were too big, too centralized, run by cynical PR men, thick-headed bureaucrats,
used-car salesmen, and neurotic ladies ... it was always going to be a mess, but
that if anyone got hung for that mess, it wasn't going to be him.

---

> an expression only has meaning within the stream of life

> Alienation is such an expression. Within that particular tributary which is a
school, it has the meaning that an individual gives up his Self (denying what he
knows to be so in favor of what the school says is so) in order to achieve
success and avoid failure. Of course, success and failure are expressions too
and only have meaning within the stream in question, but by the time anyone
remembers that, he is usually forty and reduced to writing about it.

> For my students, and for myself, this alienation from ourselves means in
practice that they (we) do or don't do things as a matter of reaction—as if we
came in to school each day as so many blanks, having wiped ourselves clean of
desire between breakfast and getting off the bus or out of our car. We turn
ourselves off as I turn off the car radio just when the front wheels hit the
curb at the teachers' parking lot. Once officially in the school we dispose of
our cans of Coke and our smokes and await the presentation of our daily (streams
of) lives by the school, and it is to that presentation that we respond. Re-act.
We don't act first ourselves, and let the school respond (while we watch it),
for the reason that we are alienated (as presupposed) and because we are sane.
