---
layout: posts
title: "September Mental State Tracker Week 2"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

"Politics has turned the lofty ideal of equality into the ugly reality of
resentments of other people's achievements — and a feeling that the world owes
you something, while you owe nobody anything, not even common decency." --
Thomas Sowell.

I've found that my burnout manifests when the linkage between my efforts and
desired results is broken. I want to say it's really the magnitude of efforts,
which is reasonably crisply measured in time units, compared to the magnitude of
the results. The problem is how to define the magnitude of the results. Any
measure of the magnitude of the results (money, people impacted, length of
impact, physical surface area of impact) is ultimately modulated by one's
perception of the value of that  measure. Is money more valuable than number of
people impacted? Or do I care more about the size of the impact on each person
(for example, how much their lifespan was extended)? Or is it that what matters
is some subjective survey of people's happiness after using what I made? One's
perceptions or understandings of his own values can change frequently. The rate
of that change determines how quickly one becomes burnt out.

One thing that bothers me fantastically about the way Chromium handles tab
overflow is the fact that the tabs disappear into a tiny, unidentifiable nib.
Safari has a reasonable solution, which is that the tabs can only shrink to a
certain minimum size which preserves some of the tab title. Any excess tabs are
piled upon one another and can be scrolled through by clicking on the pile or
with an actual scroll wheel. Firefox, of course, has the ultimate solution,
which is tree tabs. Can't Chromium learn something from others on this basic
browser mechanism?

It took me just about forever to finish the Dark Forest but I did it on Fri,
Sept 11. Part of this was due to my simultaneously reading the Chinese and
English versions (there is one piece of plot that is significantly different
between the two!). The bigger reason was that I getting bored with the plot. I
think many people agree with me that the author's writing style is very dry.
You do get a nice payoff at the end, but getting there requires that you have
honed some great patience for a delayed climax. Is this third book worth it?
It's got mixed reviews, with some saying it also contains the classic Liu CiXin
delayed and epic climax, so I figure I may as well take another couple months
and slog through it.

[Computational Limits of Deep Learning HN
Thread](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=24192117)
  * I did not bother reading the article. I read all the comments, and the one
    that sent sparks off in my head was the one that linked to [this
    post](http://www.incompleteideas.net/IncIdeas/BitterLesson.html) by Rich
    Sutton, a well recognized authority in artificial intelligence. Sutton's
    point is that most of the gains in AI from the past 70 years have been from
    applying greater computation power to statistical algorithms. An AI
    researcher's inclination is to try to distill human intuition into a model.
    It turns out that's no simple task and it's fundamentally flawed because we
    don't want to build in our limited understanding of the complexity of the
    world.
  > \[W\]e should build in only the meta-methods that can find and capture this
  arbitrary complexity. Essential to these methods is that they can find good
  approximations, but the search for them should be by our methods, not by us.
  We want AI agents that can discover like we can, not which contain what we
  have discovered. Building in our discoveries only makes it harder to see how
  the discovering process can be done.
  * [This
   book](https://www.amazon.com/Book-Why-Science-Cause-Effect/dp/046509760X)
    also sounds intriguing.

[Nick Bostrom on Why Finding Signs of Extraterrestrial Life Could Send Humanity
Into a Deep and Unrecoverable Despair HN
Thread](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=24121787)
  * The comments were not particularly enlightening.
  * Based on the facts that there are tons of planets but so far no signs of
    intelligent extraterrestrial civilization, we should assume there is a Great
    Filter:
  >  The Great Filter can be thought of as a probability barrier. It consists of
  one or more highly improbable evolutionary transitions or steps whose
  occurrence is required in order for an Earth‐like planet to produce an
  intelligent civilization of a type that would be visible to us with our
  current observation technology.
  * If the Great Filter is behind us, then it's perfectly reasonable that we are
    the only intelligent civilization out of 10^(some large number) planets
    circling around a sun to have developed in the past billion + years. If the
    Great Filter is after us, then maybe a bunch of other civilizations hit that
    Great Filter and completely vanished. The more advanced life we discover on
    other planets, the more the probability that the Great Filter is in our
    future increases. And the acknowledgement of that news would be some of the
    worst news ever to be revealed to humanity, for it is [far worse to lose
    100% of the population than 99% of it](https://www.edge.org/conversation/toby_ord-we-have-the-power-to-destroy-ourselves-without-the-wisdom-to-ensure-that-we).

After weeks of hemming and hawing about doing the work of actually reading this
rather simple paper, I finally got my brain to obey and ingest the [original
Google paper](http://infolab.stanford.edu/~backrub/google.html).
  * What's hilarious about this paper is "Appendix A: Advertising and Mixed
    Motives".
  > \[W\]e expect that advertising funded search engines will be inherently
  biased towards the advertisers and away from the needs of the consumers.
  > In general, it could be argued from the consumer point of view that the
  better the search engine is, the fewer advertisements will be needed for the
  consumer to find what they want.
  > \[W\]e believe the issue of advertising causes enough mixed incentives that
  it is crucial to have a competitive search engine that is transparent and in
  the academic realm.

[2019 Social Capital Annual
Letter](https://www.socialcapital.com/annual-letters/2019)
  * What has Big Tech done for the world?
    * Be a brain drain (much like finance was pre financial crisis and still is)
      by offering big money packages
    * Build massive surveillance platforms
    * Structurally encourage artificial bidding wars and encourage generation of
      clickbait content that drives ad revenue
  * What has Big Tech not done for the world?
    * Not invest in game changing innovation to resolve climate change, increase
      life expectancy, solve fatal or chronic diseases, help us explore the
      universe
  * How do we resolve Big Tech's issues?
    * Government can break up big tech. Need to make sure big tech doesn't write
      the rules and need to make sure big tech doesn't just reform after the
      break up.
    * Government can impose taxation or other financial regulation that cripples
      the big money comp packages and encourages small business formation.
  * What else is screwed? Oh, that's right, banking and interest rates.
    * Interest rates going to zero or negative means people don't know what to
      do with their money so they'll invest in anything with a sign of potential
        future growth. WTF.
    * Low interest rates also means cheap money also means financial engineering
      through stock buybacks that elevate EPS.
    * Read [Epsilon Theory](https://www.epsilontheory.com) if you want to know
      more about [financial
      nonsense](https://www.epsilontheory.com/when-was-i-radicalized-boeing-edition/)
      and [sheep](https://www.epsilontheory.com/sheep-logic/).
  * What else needs to be changed?
    * Maybe those companies that keep having to raise tons of money to keep
      their balance sheet subsidized tech enabled hybrid business models
      running.  Ahem, [FB raised tons of money by
      2011](https://fortune.com/2011/01/11/timeline-where-facebook-got-its-funding/).
      Uber, AirBnB, WeWork, are all trendsetters of big booming "tech enabled"
      behemoths that don't have "unique and defensible" sources of customer
      value.
    > if you encourage your users to act like hobos, they will, and your only
    solution is to keep raising capital which isn’t always possible.
  * "Capital allocation isn't a team sport". It's why Buffet and Munger and any
    of the great VCs stand on their own. They sit in their own rooms and read
    their own papers and think their own thoughts and make their own decisions.
    There's no other way to play the game.
  * Chamath's fund is now a holding company, so if you're working on hard tech
    stuff, and you want an investor who has plenty of cash to deploy, will let
    you make smart choices and will call you out on your BS, might make sense to
    [work with them](http://socialcapital.com).

[Ever wanted to know how jack in the box toys
works?](https://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/a20809/how-jack-in-the-box-works/)

I've heard a lot about the [China
Study](https://www.amazon.com/China-Study-Comprehensive-Nutrition-Implications/dp/1932100660)
nutrition Twitter. I thought I might start to read it...but then Chris
Masterjohn tipped me off to a potentially earth shattering [critique of the
book](https://deniseminger.com/2010/07/07/the-china-study-fact-or-fallac/) that
I figured I (too lazy to do the math myself) should read first.

[Choline (and its precursor friend methionine) cures Fatty
Liver](https://chrismasterjohnphd.com/blog/2010/11/23/sweet-truth-about-liver-and-egg-yolks)
  * Isn't it wonderful when you use real knowledge and that brain of yours to
    rediscover truths that have been [willfully
    distorted](https://www.crossfit.com/health/ancel-keys-cholesterol-con-part-1)
    into completely false nastiness that is somehow contemporary common
    (medical) knowledge and thus learn to save yourself?
  * I have a friend from college who was diagnosed with fatty liver in junior
    year. As expected, his liver doctor told him to be avoiding egg yolk, which
    contains that miracle fatty liver curing molecule choline. Modern medical
    malpractice that is driven by ignorance of this sort continues to amaze me.

[Log of Developing a Really Bloody Fast Tool for Searching the Have I Been Pwned
Database](http://stryku.pl/poetry/okon.php)

[A Little Weekly Taste of What's Happening in the Finance Oriented
World](https://diff.substack.com/p/how-airlines-explain-the-economy)
  * The main article in on airline fuel hedging and why hub and spoke airlines
    had largely stopped hedging by 2019. But now, the coronavirus has shifted
    the supply elasticity and overall ability of the airlines to respond to
    future financial changes that hedging makes sense again.
  * Something else was that big tech companies are raising plenty of capital and
    thus continuing to tilt the playing in their favor.

[Simple Sabotage Manual from the
CIA](https://www.cia.gov/news-information/featured-story-archive/2012-featured-story-archive/CleanedUOSSSimpleSabotage_sm.pdf)
  * Came out of the OSS (Office of Strategic Services) in WWII. The main
    objective is to get the every day citizen to do their jobs poorly and cause
    physical damage or slow down critical production and operations. All the
    recommended techniques are not easily attributable to individual people
    (anyone could have spoiled the lubricant with sawdust) and can be excused as
    the result of a worker's stupidity or carelessness (I was kept up by an air
    raid and momentarily lost focus). Some excuses cannot be used too
    frequently, so the saboteur has to expand his attack surface area by
    recruiting other defectors or going after higher value targets (e.g.
    spoiling an entire batch of rubber).
  * They do mention the difficulty of convincing someone to act contrary to
    their ordinarily careful nature at work. It is most effective to convince
    them that their efforts contribute to concrete objectives, like "damaging
    the lathes in the factory will bring closer the day when dictator X will
    fall from the throne".
  * An excellent example of simple sabotage is in the Three Body Problem novel.
    So as not to spoil this major plot point, I recommend that you at least read
    the first book of the series.

[The Source of what Alan Kay Really Means by
OOP](http://userpage.fu-berlin.de/~ram/pub/pub_jf47ht81Ht/doc_kay_oop_en)
  * The basic unit of computation is the computer.
  > OOP to me means only messaging, local retention and protection and hiding of
  state-process, and extreme late-binding of all things.

[Is Bigness and Centralized Control Really All that We Make it out to be (Twitter
thread)](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/978127438130524161)
  * Don't confuse the [unfamiliar with the
   improbable](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/998453843120697344).
  * Isn't it charming that the [government destroys local community support
   mechanisms](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/981381609185259526)
    groups and thus carves itself a space as a necessary but ineffective welfare
    provider when people inevitably fall upon hard times?
    > [The absorption of all social functions by the State necessarily favoured
    the development of an unbridled, narrowminded individualism. In proportion
    as the obligations towards the State grew in numbers the citizens were
    evidently relieved from their obligations towards each
    other.](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/993142862853242880/photo/1)
    * Why local solutions work? Because ["perceived self-interest,
      community-interest, \[is\] made possible (capable of being perceived by the
      indivdual) only at the human
      scale"](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/993631546564272128/photo/1).
    * Are the benefits of increased productivity [absorbed by individual
   citizens](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/993667790816002049/photo/1)
    or passed through as ["benefits" to
    society](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/993666126952390656/photo/1)?
  * What about the [cost of government regulation](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/979498665541685248)?
    * Also, government has *created* plenty of problems by prohibiting alcohol
      (organized crime that still lasts to this day) and cracking down on drugs
      (spurred the development of underground, robust, violent crime networks).
  * For example, this [damning
   story](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/981454440921116672/) about the
    WHO utterly failing in its attempt to techo-solve malaria on the Malay
    Peninsula with DDT. The wrecked the ecology of the location by poisoning a
    whole chain of animals and even increased the number of miscarriages and
    malformed births. The actual solution was to train local doctors to
    recognize and report malaria cases and improve the general economic
    condition of the Peninsula. Malaria is largely unknown in NorCal, not
    because the carriers don't exist, but because the populace is too healthy to
    host the protozoa.
  * [Dunbar's number rests at 150 but the politically cohesive group size rests
   at an average around 500](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/982797905156165632/photo/1).
    * Range for the politically cohesive group could be anywhere from 50 -
      1000s.
  > You could make it into a rule: in general, territories will be richer when
  small and self-sufficient than when large and dependent. — Human Scale
  Revisited, Kirkpatrick Sale
  * Is modern civic apathy any surprise when none of us have any [real
   say](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/986960440600117249/photo/1) in
    the governance of our nation?
    * [Did you want to see the
   president](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/998435247384551426)?
  * I don't think any of us modern Westerners know what [servant
   leadership](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/991253426775379969/photo/1)
   is.
  * [Stateless
   societies](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/991259319256559616/photo/1)
    are only foreign to the "monstrosities" that modernity has erected out of
    its ambition for power and control.
    * It seems like you have to sacrifice infinite sustainability and simple,
      pure, idyllic (maybe naive, you'd say) happiness when you decide to pursue
      "progress" (of course the dots only align in hindset). Progress is a
      Pandora's box that continuously demands [results of some fixed magnitude
      on ever decreasing time
     scales](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/may/11/accelerationism-how-a-fringe-philosophy-predicted-the-future-we-live-in).
      Modern societies are powering a hamster wheel (fly wheel?) that cannot be
      stopped, lest civilization and all hope for comfort and luxury and all
      things good in developed nations be returned to ashes and dust.
      * People have to have things to do, don't they? How much of modern "work"
        is just creating new nonsense so people don't become unemployed and be
        forced to sit around around at home and, for the first time since they
        entered the professional, "adult" world, fully acknowledge how useless
        and uninspired and incapable of sustaining themselves without the
        artifical life support framework that is their employer.
    * [Exposition of the governance in stateless early New England](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/991455732473118721/photo/3),
      where the people were always "easie and and satisfied with what they have
      done".
   * How can one keep a state [accountable to itself](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/991819718267883521/photo/1)?
     * [Does the state actually do anything to prevent harmful tendencies from
     being physically realized](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/998394451406999553/photo/1)?
   * [So much for multiculturalism and trying to make everyone peacefully
   coexist](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/995808554450763779/photo/1).
   * How about [cutting down problems to our size](https://twitter.com/wrathofgnon/status/992260696061591552/photo/1),
     so we can actually have a chance at [understanding and dealing with them](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=17872400)?

[Crayon-shin but connected to
himself](https://twitter.com/1o0o9/status/1298272301247414279)

[The Bay Area was covered in lava not too long
ago](https://twitter.com/CALFIRECZU/status/1297383648065249280)
  * Welcome to CA, my friends.
  * And now the [San Gabriel Mountains look like they're covered in lava](https://pasteboard.co/JqCK3AT.jpg).

[Fantastic and gentle introduction to why abstract algebra matters for practical
things like adding and averaging and finding min values](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/abstract-algebra-analytics/)
  * One thing that's nice about adding is that you only need to hold onto two
    numbers at a time, the last stored value and the new number to combine the
    stored value with to get another number.
    * Associativity (group things however you want) and commutativity (perform
      operations in whatever order you want) also make designing a dstributed
      adding system easier to implement. Oh, and don't forget that zero is an
      identity operator.
    * Max has similar properties.
    * Min doesn't work because 0 isn't the identity operator.
    * Hmmm, the above properties sound like the properties of commutative
      monoids...If you are able to map your distributed, aggregation sytems onto
      a commutative monoid, then you can implement *one*, abstracted piece of
      infrastructure to resolve all the different forms of aggregations.
      Examples?
      * TopK.
        * You can always combine two TopK lists and get back another TopK list.
          Ordering, grouping don't matter for the final result, and the empty
          list is your identity.
      * Average.
        * The naive implementation of average doesn't work, but consider storing
          (value, count). Average { (10, 1) , (5, 1) , (3, 1) } = (18 , 3). Now
          you just have vector addition.
      * Histograms.
        * Store a vector of counts across buckets and now you can do simple
          element wise addition.
      * Unique values. --> HyperLogLog.
        * Naive: Set union works, but it can take up too much space.
        * Non-Naive: Estimate the number of unique values using hashing and
          expected values. Hash each value you receive to some value in [0, 1].
          If the hash function is good, the distances between hashes should be
          uniformly distributed, that is distance = 1 / (N + 1), where N is the
          number of unique hashes you've seen so far. This is also the expected
          distance between 0 and the first hash you see. So you can take the min
          hash and reverse 1 / (N + 1) to get an estimate of the number of
          unique values. How to improve this estimate? Hash each input K times,
          take the elementwise min over those K values, and average the
          expectation of those mins.
      * Min-Hash for set similarity
      * Bloom filters (sort of) for set membership
      * Frequency --> Count-min sketch.
        * Hash input values to a bucket. e.g. Alice --> [0, 0, 0, 1], Bob -->
          [0, 0, 1, 0].
        * How do you deal with collisions? Expand to a matrix of multiple
          concatenated hash vectors and take the min value across all vector of
          the buckets that a given input value hashed to.
    * Semigroup ( set + associative op) --> Monoid ( semigroup + identity) -->
      Group ( monoid + inverse ) --> Abelian group ( group + commutativity )
      * Subtraction is a noncommutative group. It has an inverse operation.
      * String concat is a monoid
      * Given these definitions, can we upgrade any of the above definitions?
        * Sum, average, count min sketch --> abelian groups.
      * These categories compose in interesting ways. Count Min Sketch uses
        addition. Can you replace addition with HyperLogLog?
    * Real life examples?
      * [Algebird from Twitter](https://github.com/twitter/algebird)
      * [Simmer from Avi](https://github.com/avibryant/simmer)


I've spent quite a few hours (60 hrs+) learning to fly single engine airplanes.
While I'm still a lazy git who doesn't have her PPL, my hearts races when I see
[aviation news](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=24288821).
  * I really don't have anything smart to contribute to this article. I'm merely
    posting it for general interest.

[Some nice one-on-one questions for you to ask your
subordinates](https://medium.com/swlh/one-on-one-meeting-questions-great-managers-ask-their-employees-dfb33c31f2f2)
