---
layout: posts
title: "Quote From the Epilogue of \"The Way It Spozed To Be\""
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

Members of our staff do the same thing when they talk about the good old days
when we had fewer kids, fewer problems, and were more informal, more friendly,
sang a less worried song.

What went wrong? In the old days—six years ago—the kids got along with the
system. (Would they now, since we have legislated against safety valves?) The
kids are different now. Upon reflection, they too come up with the word
deprived. If more kids can't or won't go along with us, it is because we have
more deprived kids. If virtually all the kids from "lower-income" and "minority"
groups are in our own low-ability groups, we turn to the counselors, the social
workers, the clinics. Them is deprived kids, goes the cry, and someone ought to
do something about it.

Deprived of what? Of intelligence? Do we claim that lower-class kids are just
naturally dumber than middle-class kids, and that why they all in that dumb
class? Naturally not. We have a list. They are deprived of ego strength, of
realistic goal-orientation, of family stability, of secure peer relationships;
they lack the serene middle-class faith in the future. Because of all that, they
also lack self-control, cannot risk failure, won't accept criticism, can't take
two steps back to go one forward, have no study habits, no basic skills, don't
respect school property, and didn't read "Cowboy Small."

You can add to this list, or you can find another. But what such a list adds up
to is something simple: some kids can't take it as well as others.

Some kids can't stand there calmly while they talk to the flag in Spanish. Or
they can in kindergarten, like Jay, but can't keep it up in the fourth or
seventh grade. If the kids went along with us in the old days, it was for two
reasons: first, there were fewer of them and we were able to allow them enough
leeway to live; and second, they were white, middle-class kids in America. Not
that the system in general was right for them—only that they fit the ideal of
America in 1960 without much worry about it, had a richer life-diet outside of
school, and so were tough enough to take it.

All right. Some can take it, and some can't. Those who cannot expose the point—
it's not any good for anyone. My wife's father was once bitten by a cottonmouth,
and survived. Another man from the same community was bitten and died. No one
argued that the experience was good for either one of them. Sitting in a
classroom or at home pretending to "study" a badly written text full of false
information, adding up twenty sums when they're all the same and one would do,
being bottled up for seven hours a day in a place where you decide nothing,
having your success or failure depend, a hundred times a day, on the plan,
invention and whim of someone else, being put in a position where most of your
real desires are not only ignored but actively penalized, undertaking nothing
for its own sake but only for that illusory carrot of the future—maybe you can
do it, and maybe you can't, but either way, it's probably done you some harm.

...
What to do? You can read suggestions for change in a lot of recent books by
serious and intelligent men. I suppose I could add mine. But frankly, I have
almost no hope that there will be any significant change in the way we educate
our children—for that, after all, would involve liberty, the last thing we may
soon expect—and so I have thought merely to describe one time for you, parents,
kids, readers, the way it is.

July 4, 1967

James Herndon
