---
layout: posts
title: "Thinking in Systems Quotes"
---
*Author: Bianca Yang*<br>
*Email: <a href="mailto:ipacifics@gmail.com?subject=Hello from the XDRT Blog">ipacifics@gmail.com</a>*<br>

> Complex systems can evolve from simple systems only if there are stable
intermediate forms. The resulting complex forms will naturally be hierarchic.

----
> Systems thinkers strive to understand the connections between the hand
releasing the Slinky (event) and the resulting oscillations (behavior) and the
mechanical characteristics of the Slinky's coil (structure).

> ... In fact, much analysis in the world goes no deeper than events. Listen
to every night's explanation of why the stock market did what it did. Stocks
went up (down) because the US dollar fell (rose), or the prime interest rate
rose (fell), or the Democrats won (lost), or one country invaded another (or
didn't). Event-event analysis.

> These explanations give you no ability to predict what will happen tomorrow.
They give you no ability to change the behavior of the system.

> ... Most economic analysis goes one level deeper, to behavior over time.
Econometric models strive to find the statistical links among past trends in
income, savings, ..., often in complicated equations.

> These behavior-based models are more useful than event-based ones, but they
still have fundamental problems. First, they typically overemphasize system
flows and underemphasize stocks.

> ... Second, and more seriously, in trying to find statistical links that
relate flows to each other, econometricians are searching for something that
does not exist. There's no reason to expect any flow to bear a stable
relationship to any other flow. Flows go up and down, on and off, in all
sorts of combinations, in response to stocks, not to other flows.

> Let me use a simple example to explain what I mean. Suppose you knew nothing
at all about thermostats, but you had a lot of data about past heat flows into
and out of the room. You could find an equation telling you how these flows
have varied together in the past[.]

> ...Your equation would hold, however, only until something changes in the
system's structure--someone opens a window or improves the insulation, or
tunes the furnace, or forgets to order oil. You could predict tomorrow's room
temperature with your equation, as long as the system didn't change or break
down. But if you were asked to make the room warmer, or if the room
temperature suddenly started plummeting and you had to fix it, or if you
wanted to product the same room temperature with a lower fuel bill, your
behavior-level analysis wouldn't help you. You would have to dig into the
system's structure.

----
> Our culture, obsessed with numbers, has given us the idea that what we can
measure is more important than what we can't measure. Think about that for a
minute. It means that we make quantity more important than quality.
